and this video,
we're going to see how to group by fiscal years and fiscal quarters in pivot tables,
so there is no built in way in pivot tables in order to group by fiscal years or fiscal
quarters.
So you have to write formulas on your data in order to create a fiscal your column and a
fiscal quarter call.
So I created the columns here on my data,
and I just need to write the formulas to calculate the fiscal years on fiscal quarters for
the order date.
So,
first of all,
for the fiscal year,
I'm going to assume that the fiscal year starts in April,
since it starts in April,
where live here in Canada but you could always tweak The format is to match your businesses
fiscal year start date,
so to calculate the fiscal year,
basically because it starts in eight pro the 1st 3 months on the calendar year belonged to
the previous fiscal year.
So January,
February and March,
on the calendar year on a certain counter year,
belonged to the fiscal year for the previous year or belonged to the previous year's fiscal
year.
So here,
for example,
for the order date ninth of October 2016.
This still belongs to the fiscal year of 2016 because the fiscal year of 2016 starts in
April and toe any dates between the first of April 2016 and the 31st of December 2016
belonged to the fiscal year of 2016.
And the dates between the 1st 2 January 2016 up until the end of March,
2016 belonged to the fiscal year for 2015.
So we can actually write a simple formula here that the fiscal year is equal to the year of
this state minus.
And we're gonna actually right,
a true or false condition that's gonna transform into a one or zero,
which is that we're gonna test if the month of the state is less than four.
So if the month of the date is less than four than this partier off,
the formula is gonna become true.
And if it is greater than four than it's gonna become a false,
which is the case here,
and this door falls will be transformed into a one or a zero because we have a minus sign
here.
So that means that in case the condition is true and in case this month is less than four,
we will be subtracting one from our year,
so the date will be belonging to the previous fiscal year.
But in this case,
in this particular order dates case,
which is ninth of October 2016 here the condition will be a fall.
So also will be subtracting zero and so it will be in the same fiscal year,
So this order date will be in the fiscal year off.
Press enter Now let's drag the formula down and let's check a date that is on the 1st 3
months,
for example,
this 1/9 of March 2016.
This belongs to the fiscal year off 2050.
Because here the condition that we put to the test if the month is less than four and
actually the month is less than four,
right,
because it's a three,
then this condition will become a true and then because of the negative sign,
you will be subtracting the one.
So if we highlight the whole thing here,
impress F nine here because here it subtracts the one from 2016 so it becomes a 2015.
So this is how you can calculate the fiscal year.
Now let's see how to calculate the fiscal quarter.
So to calculate the fiscal quarter,
there is a very easy way to do it,
which is using the choose function so equals Jews and the Jews function.
You simply give it an index number,
the index number would be an integer,
and you give it a number of choices.
And based on the inter jury that you're going to give it,
it's gonna make a choice out of these choices.
So the integer we're going to give it is actually the month of our date.
So that's going to be an integer between one and 12 because they're only 12 months in a
year,
and then the values were going to give it to choose from.
We agreed before that the 1st 3 months belong to the fourth quarter off the previous year,
right?
The 1st 3 months on a calendar year belong to the fourth quarter off the previous fiscal
year,
so the 1st 3 months on 2016 will be on the lost quarter or the fourth quarter off 2000 and
So this is why you were going to give it the truces of 444 and then 111 Right.
This is when the 1st 3 months of the new fiscal year,
which is 2016 start right and then to to to these air the following three months,
which correspond to the second quarter off the fiscal year 2000 and 16 on then 333 which
are the third quarter off the fiscal year off 2060.
So this part of the choose function here would yield a number between one and 12.
So for highlight this month,
part here,
and you press f nine because here it gives us the number 10.
So that means it will choose the 10th choice out of these choices.
So get six year 789 10 so october would belong to the third quarter off the fiscal year off
So if a press enter here and we dragged the formula down,
were able to get the fiscal court there also other ways to get the fiscal quarter,
and I actually have a video on my YouTube channel that explains different ways to get the
fiscal year and fiscal quarter and quarter and all these date calculations,
and I'm gonna leave you the link for that video in the resource is section and I would
highly recommend that you would watch it.
Now let's refresh our pivot table here,
Sophie,
Right Click on our pivot table on refresh it and then you can see here we're able to group
with fiscal quarters,
for example,
and with fiscal years,
if you would like so we could remove the fiscal quarters.
And now we're able to group by fiscal year.
So there is no built in way in pivot tables to group by fiscal quarters or fiscal years.
But we're able to do that through a for minutes.
Okay,
so let's see it guys on how to group by fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Thank you so much watching this video I'll see on the next